docs/en_us/shared/preface.rst, before:

.. _Preface:

############
Preface
############

Course teams, researchers, developers, students: the edX community includes
groups with a range of reasons for using the platform and objectives to
accomplish. To help members of each group learn about what edX offers, reach
goals, and solve problems, edX provides a variety of information resources.

To help you find what you need, browse the edX offerings in these categories:

* :ref:`Resources for Course Teams`
* :ref:`Resources for Researchers`
* :ref:`Resources for Developers`
* :ref:`Resources for Students`

All members of the edX community are encouraged to make use of any of the
resources described in this preface.

***********************
System Status
***********************

For system-related notifications from the edX operations team, including
outages and the status of error reports. On Twitter_, you can follow
@edxstatus.

Current system status and the uptime percentages for edX servers, along with
the Twitter feed, are published on the `edX Status`_ web page.

.. _Resources for Course Teams:

**************************
Resources for Course Teams
**************************

Course teams include faculty, instructional designers, course staff, discussion
moderators, and others who contribute to the creation and delivery of courses
on edx.org or edX Edge.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation for course teams is available on the docs.edx.org web page.

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_ is a comprehensive guide with concepts
  and procedures to help you build a course in edX Studio, and then use the
  Learning Management System (LMS) to run a course.

  When you are working in edX Studio, you can access relevant sections of this
  guide by clicking **Help** on any page.

* `edX Course Staff Release Notes`_ summarize the changes in each new version
  of the edX Studio and LMS software.

* `Creating a Peer Assessment`_ describes features for students to provide
  peer- and self- evaluations of responses to a question. Note that this new
  feature is in limited release.

These guides open in your web browser. The left side of each page includes a
**Search docs** field and links to that guide's contents. To open or save a PDF
version, click **v: latest** at the lower left of the page, then click **PDF**.

Email
-----

To receive and share information by email, course team members can:

* Sign up to receive monthly newsletters_.

* Sign up to receive release_ notes for every release.

* Join the `openedx-studio`_ Google group to ask questions and participate in
  discussions with peers at other edX partner organizations and edX staffers.

Wikis and Web Sites
-------------------

The edX product team maintains the `Open edX Product`_ wiki, which includes the
`Open edX Public Product Roadmap`_.

The `edX Author Support`_ site hosts discussions that are monitored by edX
staffers.

.. _Resources for Researchers:

**************************
Resources for Researchers
**************************

Data for the courses on edx.org and edX Edge is available to the "data czars"
at our partner institutions, and then used by database experts, statisticians,
educational investigators, and others for educational research.

Documentation
-------------

The `edX Research Guide`_ is available on the docs.edx.org web page.

This guide opens in your web browser, with a **Search docs** field and links to
that guide's contents on the left side of each page. To open or save a PDF
version, click **v: latest** at the lower left of the page, and then click
**PDF**.

Email
-------

To receive and share information by email, researchers can join the
`openedx-analytics`_ Google group to ask questions and participate in
discussions with peers at other edX partner organizations and edX staffers.

Wiki
-------------------

The edX Analytics team maintains the `Open edX Analytics`_ wiki, which includes
links to periodic release notes, the Open edX Public Product Roadmap, and other
resources for researchers.

.. _Resources for Developers:

**************************
Resources for Developers
**************************

Software engineers, system administrators, and translators work on extending
and localizing the code for the edX platform.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation for developers is available on the docs.edx.org web page.

* `edX Developer Documentation`_ collects information directly from edX
  platform python docstrings. The topics in this guide include guidelines for
  contributing to Open edX, options for extending the Open edX platform, using
  the edX public sandboxes, instrumenting analytics, and testing.

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_ provides procedures
  for getting an edX developer stack (Devstack) and production stack
  (Fullstack) oprerational.

* XBlock_: Open edX courseware components provides preliminary documentation
  on the XBlock component architecture for building courses.

GitHub
-------

There are two main edX repositories on GitHub.

* The `edx/edx-platform`_ repo contains the code for the edX platform.

* The `edx/configuration`_ repo contains scripts to set up and operate the edX
  platform.

Additional repositories are used for other projects. Our contributor agreement,
contributor guidelines and coding conventions, and other resources are
available in these repositories.

Email and IRC
--------------

To receive and share information by email, developers can join these Google
groups to ask questions and participate in discussions with peers and edX
staffers.

* For conversations about the code in Open edX, join `edx-code`_.
* For conversations about running Open edX, join `openedx-ops`_.
* For conversations about globalization and translation, join `openedx-translation`_.

Additional Google groups are occasionally formed for individual projects.

.. note:: Please do not report security issues in public. If you have a concern, please email security@edx.org.

EdX engineers often monitor the Freenode #edx-code IRC channel.

Wikis and Web Sites
-------------------

The code.edx.org web site_ is an entry point for new contributors.

The edX Engineering team maintains the `Open Source Home`_ wiki, which provides
insights into the plans, projects, and questions that the edX Open Source team
is working on with the community.

The pull request dashboard_  is a visualization of the count and age of the
pull requests (PRs) assigned to teams at edX. Click the bars in this chart to
get more information about the PRs.

.. _Resources for Students:

**************************
Resources for Students
**************************

In a Course
------------

All edX courses have a discussion forum where you can ask questions and
interact with other students and with the course team: click **Discussion**.
Many courses also offer a wiki for additional resources and materials: click
**Wiki**.

Other resources may also be available, such as a course-specific facebook page
or twitter feed or opportunites for Google hangouts. Be sure to check the
**Course Info** page for your course as well as the **Discussion** and **Wiki**
pages.

From time to time, the course team may send email messages to all students.
While you can opt out of these messages, doing so means that you may miss
important or time-sensitive information. To change your preferences for course
email, click **edX** or **edX edge** at the top of any page. On your dashboard
of current courses, locate the course and then click **Email Settings**.

From edX
---------

To help you get started with the edX learning experience, edX offers a course
(of course!). You can find the edX Demo_ course on the edX web site. EdX also
maintains a list of frequently_ asked questions and answers.

If you still have questions or suggestions, you can get help from the edX
support team: click **Contact** at the bottom of any edX web page or send an
email message to info@edx.org.

For opportunities to meet others who are interested in edX courses, check the
edX Global Community meetup_ group.



.. _Building and Running an edX Course: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-partner-course-staff/en/latest/
.. _edX Course Staff Release Notes: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-release-notes/en/latest/
.. _Creating a Peer Assessment: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-open-response-assessments/en/latest/
.. _edX Research Guide: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/devdata/en/latest/
.. _newsletters: http://edx.us5.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=1822a33c054dc20e223ca40e2&id=aba723f1aa
.. _release: http://edx.us5.list-manage2.com/subscribe?u=1822a33c054dc20e223ca40e2&id=83e46bd293
.. _openedx-studio: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-studio
.. _Twitter:  http://twitter.com/edXstatus/status/475026709256101888
.. _edX Status: http://status.edx.org/
.. _Open edX Product: https://edx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/display/OPENPROD/Open+edX+Product+Home
.. _Open edX Public Product Roadmap: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/display/PROD/Product+Roadmap
.. _edX Author Support: http://help.edge.edx.org/home
.. _openedx-analytics: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-analytics
.. _Open edX Analytics: http://edx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/display/OA/Open+edX+Analytics+Home
.. _blog: http://engineering.edx.org/
.. _Open Source Home: http://edx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/display/OS/Open+Source+Home
.. _XBlock: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/xblock/en/latest/
.. _Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/
.. _edX Developer Documentation: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/userdocs/en/latest/
.. _edx/configuration: http://github.com/edx/configuration/wiki
.. _site: http://code.edx.org/
.. _edx/edx-platform: https://github.com/edx/edx-platform
.. _dashboard: http://dash.openedx.org/age.html
.. _Demo: http://www.edx.org/course/edx/edx-edxdemo101-edx-demo-1038
.. _frequently: http://www.edx.org/student-faq
.. _meetup: http://www.meetup.com/edX-Global-Community/
.. _openedx-ops: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-ops
.. _openedx-translation: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-translation
.. _edx-code: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/edx-code

Commit message:

Added note to doc team to update in both repos

docs/en_us/shared/preface.rst, after:

.. _Preface:

.. Doc team! Be sure that when you make any changes to this file that you also make them to the mirrored file in the edx-analytics-dashboard/docs repository. - Alison 19 Aug 14

############
Preface
############

Course teams, researchers, developers, students: the edX community includes
groups with a range of reasons for using the platform and objectives to
accomplish. To help members of each group learn about what edX offers, reach
goals, and solve problems, edX provides a variety of information resources.

To help you find what you need, browse the edX offerings in these categories:

* :ref:`Resources for Course Teams`
* :ref:`Resources for Researchers`
* :ref:`Resources for Developers`
* :ref:`Resources for Students`

All members of the edX community are encouraged to make use of any of the
resources described in this preface.

***********************
System Status
***********************

For system-related notifications from the edX operations team, including
outages and the status of error reports. On Twitter_, you can follow
@edxstatus.

Current system status and the uptime percentages for edX servers, along with
the Twitter feed, are published on the `edX Status`_ web page.

.. _Resources for Course Teams:

**************************
Resources for Course Teams
**************************

Course teams include faculty, instructional designers, course staff, discussion
moderators, and others who contribute to the creation and delivery of courses
on edx.org or edX Edge.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation for course teams is available on the docs.edx.org web page.

* `Building and Running an edX Course`_ is a comprehensive guide with concepts
  and procedures to help you build a course in edX Studio, and then use the
  Learning Management System (LMS) to run a course.

  When you are working in edX Studio, you can access relevant sections of this
  guide by clicking **Help** on any page.

* `edX Course Staff Release Notes`_ summarize the changes in each new version
  of the edX Studio and LMS software.

* `Creating a Peer Assessment`_ describes features for students to provide
  peer- and self- evaluations of responses to a question. Note that this new
  feature is in limited release.

These guides open in your web browser. The left side of each page includes a
**Search docs** field and links to that guide's contents. To open or save a PDF
version, click **v: latest** at the lower left of the page, then click **PDF**.

Email
-----

To receive and share information by email, course team members can:

* Sign up to receive monthly newsletters_.

* Sign up to receive release_ notes for every release.

* Join the `openedx-studio`_ Google group to ask questions and participate in
  discussions with peers at other edX partner organizations and edX staffers.

Wikis and Web Sites
-------------------

The edX product team maintains the `Open edX Product`_ wiki, which includes the
`Open edX Public Product Roadmap`_.

The `edX Author Support`_ site hosts discussions that are monitored by edX
staffers.

.. _Resources for Researchers:

**************************
Resources for Researchers
**************************

Data for the courses on edx.org and edX Edge is available to the "data czars"
at our partner institutions, and then used by database experts, statisticians,
educational investigators, and others for educational research.

Documentation
-------------

The `edX Research Guide`_ is available on the docs.edx.org web page.

This guide opens in your web browser, with a **Search docs** field and links to
that guide's contents on the left side of each page. To open or save a PDF
version, click **v: latest** at the lower left of the page, and then click
**PDF**.

Email
-------

To receive and share information by email, researchers can join the
`openedx-analytics`_ Google group to ask questions and participate in
discussions with peers at other edX partner organizations and edX staffers.

Wiki
-------------------

The edX Analytics team maintains the `Open edX Analytics`_ wiki, which includes
links to periodic release notes, the Open edX Public Product Roadmap, and other
resources for researchers.

.. _Resources for Developers:

**************************
Resources for Developers
**************************

Software engineers, system administrators, and translators work on extending
and localizing the code for the edX platform.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation for developers is available on the docs.edx.org web page.

* `edX Developer Documentation`_ collects information directly from edX
  platform python docstrings. The topics in this guide include guidelines for
  contributing to Open edX, options for extending the Open edX platform, using
  the edX public sandboxes, instrumenting analytics, and testing.

* `Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform`_ provides procedures
  for getting an edX developer stack (Devstack) and production stack
  (Fullstack) oprerational.

* XBlock_: Open edX courseware components provides preliminary documentation
  on the XBlock component architecture for building courses.

GitHub
-------

There are two main edX repositories on GitHub.

* The `edx/edx-platform`_ repo contains the code for the edX platform.

* The `edx/configuration`_ repo contains scripts to set up and operate the edX
  platform.

Additional repositories are used for other projects. Our contributor agreement,
contributor guidelines and coding conventions, and other resources are
available in these repositories.

Email and IRC
--------------

To receive and share information by email, developers can join these Google
groups to ask questions and participate in discussions with peers and edX
staffers.

* For conversations about the code in Open edX, join `edx-code`_.
* For conversations about running Open edX, join `openedx-ops`_.
* For conversations about globalization and translation, join `openedx-translation`_.

Additional Google groups are occasionally formed for individual projects.

.. note:: Please do not report security issues in public. If you have a concern, please email security@edx.org.

EdX engineers often monitor the Freenode #edx-code IRC channel.

Wikis and Web Sites
-------------------

The code.edx.org web site_ is an entry point for new contributors.

The edX Engineering team maintains the `Open Source Home`_ wiki, which provides
insights into the plans, projects, and questions that the edX Open Source team
is working on with the community.

The pull request dashboard_  is a visualization of the count and age of the
pull requests (PRs) assigned to teams at edX. Click the bars in this chart to
get more information about the PRs.

.. _Resources for Students:

**************************
Resources for Students
**************************

In a Course
------------

All edX courses have a discussion forum where you can ask questions and
interact with other students and with the course team: click **Discussion**.
Many courses also offer a wiki for additional resources and materials: click
**Wiki**.

Other resources may also be available, such as a course-specific facebook page
or twitter feed or opportunites for Google hangouts. Be sure to check the
**Course Info** page for your course as well as the **Discussion** and **Wiki**
pages.

From time to time, the course team may send email messages to all students.
While you can opt out of these messages, doing so means that you may miss
important or time-sensitive information. To change your preferences for course
email, click **edX** or **edX edge** at the top of any page. On your dashboard
of current courses, locate the course and then click **Email Settings**.

From edX
---------

To help you get started with the edX learning experience, edX offers a course
(of course!). You can find the edX Demo_ course on the edX web site. EdX also
maintains a list of frequently_ asked questions and answers.

If you still have questions or suggestions, you can get help from the edX
support team: click **Contact** at the bottom of any edX web page or send an
email message to info@edx.org.

For opportunities to meet others who are interested in edX courses, check the
edX Global Community meetup_ group.



.. _Building and Running an edX Course: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-partner-course-staff/en/latest/
.. _edX Course Staff Release Notes: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-release-notes/en/latest/
.. _Creating a Peer Assessment: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-open-response-assessments/en/latest/
.. _edX Research Guide: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/devdata/en/latest/
.. _newsletters: http://edx.us5.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=1822a33c054dc20e223ca40e2&id=aba723f1aa
.. _release: http://edx.us5.list-manage2.com/subscribe?u=1822a33c054dc20e223ca40e2&id=83e46bd293
.. _openedx-studio: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-studio
.. _Twitter:  http://twitter.com/edXstatus/status/475026709256101888
.. _edX Status: http://status.edx.org/
.. _Open edX Product: https://edx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/display/OPENPROD/Open+edX+Product+Home
.. _Open edX Public Product Roadmap: https://openedx.atlassian.net/wiki/display/PROD/Product+Roadmap
.. _edX Author Support: http://help.edge.edx.org/home
.. _openedx-analytics: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-analytics
.. _Open edX Analytics: http://edx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/display/OA/Open+edX+Analytics+Home
.. _blog: http://engineering.edx.org/
.. _Open Source Home: http://edx-wiki.atlassian.net/wiki/display/OS/Open+Source+Home
.. _XBlock: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/xblock/en/latest/
.. _Installing, Configuring, and Running the edX Platform: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/
.. _edX Developer Documentation: http://edx.readthedocs.org/projects/userdocs/en/latest/
.. _edx/configuration: http://github.com/edx/configuration/wiki
.. _site: http://code.edx.org/
.. _edx/edx-platform: https://github.com/edx/edx-platform
.. _dashboard: http://dash.openedx.org/age.html
.. _Demo: http://www.edx.org/course/edx/edx-edxdemo101-edx-demo-1038
.. _frequently: http://www.edx.org/student-faq
.. _meetup: http://www.meetup.com/edX-Global-Community/
.. _openedx-ops: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-ops
.. _openedx-translation: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/openedx-translation
.. _edx-code: http://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/edx-code
